SOURCE_TITLE: Wikivoyage - Singapore
SOURCE_URL: https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Singapore
---

Sometimes referred to as the Little Red Dot (originally coined as a pejorative by the former Indonesian president B. J. Habibie) or the Lion City (a literal translation of the original Sanskrit name), Singapore is a small country on a small island with six million people. It is a fairly crowded city and in fact, it is second only to Monaco as the world's most densely populated country. However, Singapore has over 50% of its area covered in greenery and with over 50 major parks and 4 nature reserves, it is an enchanting garden city. Large self-contained residential towns have mushroomed all over the island, around the clean and modern city centre.

Singapore CBD
The CBD (Central Business District) is in the south of the island.

+
−
1 km
Wikimedia maps | Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors
Map of Singapore City Centre. Static map

 	Riverside (Civic District)
Singapore's colonial core, with museums, statues and theatres, plus restaurants, bars and clubs, centred along the banks of the Singapore River at Boat Quay and Clarke Quay.
 	Orchard Road
Miles and miles of shopping malls in air-conditioned comfort. At the eastern end, the Bras Basah District is an arts and culture project in progress.
 	Marina Bay
Dominated by the Marina Bay Sands integrated resort (hotel, casino, shopping mall, convention centre and museum), the futuristic Gardens by the Bay, and the Marina Barrage. Along with the Singapore Flyer and the Esplanade Theatres, Marina Bay makes up the new iconic skyline of Singapore.
 	Bugis and Kampong Glam
Bugis and Kampong Glam are Singapore's old Malay district, good for shopping in the day but especially coming to life at night.
 	Chinatown
The area was designated for Chinese settlement by Raffles, and is now a Chinese heritage area popular with tourists. Restored shophouses make for trendy hangouts for locals and expats alike.
 	Little India
A piece of India to the north of the city core.
Outer Singapore
+
−
10 km
Wikimedia maps | Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors
Map of Outer Singapore. Static map
There's more to see outside the main city centre of Singapore, from the HDB (Housing and Development Board) heartlands where hawker food is king, to the Singapore Zoo. Or chill out in the parks and beaches of the East Coast and Sentosa.

 	Sentosa and Harbourfront
A separate island once a military fort that has been developed into a resort. Sentosa is the closest that Singapore gets to Disneyland, with a dash of gambling and the Universal Studios theme park thrown in. Across the water, there's Mount Faber and the Southern Ridges, an urban treetop walk with local monkeys. We also cover Singapore's Southern Islands as part of this article, some of which are accessible to tourists by ferry.
 	East Coast
The largely residential eastern part of the island contains Changi Airport, miles and miles of beach and many famous eateries. Also covers Geylang Serai, the true home of Singapore's Malays, and Pulau Ubin, the last remnant of a rustic Singapore.
 	North and West
The northern and western parts of the island, known as Woodlands and Jurong respectively, form Singapore's residential and industrial hinterlands. By far the largest tourist attraction here is the Mandai complex, containing all four of Singapore's spectacular zoos.
 	Balestier, Newton, Novena and Toa Payoh
Budget accommodations and Burmese temples within striking distance of Central Singapore. Toa Payoh, one of Singapore's first planned neighbourhoods, is an easy way to wander around a local housing estate and experience the town centre design unique to Singapore.
