SOURCE_TITLE: Wikivoyage - Singapore
SOURCE_URL: https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Singapore

While you can find a place to practice nearly any sport in Singapore — golfing, surfing, scuba diving, even ice skating and snow skiing — due to the country's small size your options are rather limited and prices are relatively high. For scuba diving in particular, the busy shipping lanes and sheer population pressure mean that the sea around Singapore is murky, and most locals head across the border into Malaysia (in particular Pulau Tioman or Pulau Dayang) to get their fix. On the upside, there is an abundance of dive shops in Singapore, and they often arrange weekend trips to good dive sites off the East Coast of Malaysia.

Culture

Esplanade Theatres by the Bay
On the cultural side of things, Singapore has been trying to shake off its boring, buttoned-down reputation and attract more artists and performances. The star in Singapore's cultural sky is the Esplanade theatre in Marina Bay, a world-class facility for performing arts and a frequent stage for the Singapore Symphony Orchestra. For traditional Chinese music, its counterpart is the Singapore Chinese Orchestra.

Most any big-ticket musician or band touring Asia will perform in Singapore, see Ticketle for a one-stop shop listing of upcoming events. In May or June, don't miss the yearly Singapore International Festival of Arts (formerly the Singapore Arts Festival), featuring a programme of art exhibitions/performances and artist conversations over several weeks. Advance tickets for almost any cultural event can be purchased from SISTIC, either on-line or from any of their numerous ticketing outlets, including the Singapore Visitor Centre on Orchard Rd.

Going to the movies is a popular Singaporean pastime, but look for "NC16" (age 16 and above only) or "M18" (age 18 and above only) or "R21" ratings (age 21 and above only) if you like your movies with fewer cuts. The big theatre chains are Carnival Cinemas, Golden Village and Shaw Brothers. For a taste of Singapore through film, Jack Neo's popular comedies showcase the foibles of Singaporean life, while directors like K. Rajagopal, Boo Jun Feng, and Tan Pin Pin are ushering in a new wave of contemporary film art in Singapore.

Wayang is a Chinese street opera, performed in open-air theaters by troupes. It combines a wide variety of traditional art forms with singing, mime, dancing, acrobatics and martial arts. It is now a dying art form as dialect proficiency among the younger generation continues to decrease, so catch it while you still can. They are generally most common during the Hungry Ghost Festival, the seventh month of the Chinese calendar. A closely-related and equally endangered genre is traditional Chinese puppetry, which is also often performed in open air street theatres during the Hungry Ghost Festival.

Gambling
Singapore has two massive casinos, always referred to with the euphemism "integrated resort", which pull in nearly as much revenue as the entirety of Las Vegas. Marina Bay Sands at Marina Bay is the larger and swankier of the two, while Resorts World Sentosa at Sentosa aims for a more family-friendly experience. While locals (citizens and permanent residents) have to pay $150/day to get in, foreign visitors can enter for free after presenting their passport.

Besides the casino, there are other forms of legalised betting which are more accessible to the locals. This includes football (soccer) betting and several lotteries run by the Singapore Pools. Horse racing in Singapore was terminated in October 2024, but you can bet on foreign races through the Singapore Pools.

Mahjong is also a popular pastime in Singapore. The version played in Singapore is similar to the Cantonese version, but it also has extra "animal tiles" not present in the original Cantonese version, as well as several scoring differences. However, this remains pretty much a family and friends affair, and there are no (legal) mahjong parlours as the operation of gambling dens is illegal.

Gambling in public (e.g. playing poker or blackjack at a park) is illegal and punishable with fines and imprisonment.

Golf
Despite its small size, Singapore has a surprisingly large number of golf courses, but most of the best ones are run by private clubs and open to members and their guests only. The main exceptions are the Sentosa Golf Club, the Sembawang Country Club and the Sime Course of Keppel Club, though they charge much higher fees than for members. See the Singapore Golf Association for the full list; alternatively, head to the nearby Indonesian islands of Batam or Bintan or across the Second Link to Iskandar Puteri, Malaysia.

Races

The Singapore Grand Prix takes place at the Marina Bay Street Circuit
Singapore Grand Prix is an on-street Formula One motor-race held in the streets of Marina Bay in Sept / Oct. Book well in advance for the tickets, because they get sold out within minutes. Preferably book a seat on the main strait because that is where many overtakes and a lot of action happens.
Singapore Polo Club near Balestier is also open to the public on competition days.
Spas
Singapore has experienced a 'spa boom', and there is now plenty of choice for everything from holistic Ayurveda to green tea hydrotherapy. However, prices aren't as rock-bottom as in neighbours Indonesia and Thailand, and you'll generally be looking at upwards of $50 even for a plain one-hour massage. Premium spas can be found in most 5 star hotels and on Orchard, and Sentosa's Spa Botanica also has a good reputation. Alternatively, do what many locals do and head across the border to Johor Bahru for cheaper options.

There are also numerous shops offering traditional Chinese massage and foot reflexology, which are mostly legitimate, although some sketchier "health centres" (actually a front for illegal prostitution) do remain.

When looking for beauty salons on Orchard Road, try out the ones on the fourth floor of Lucky Plaza. They offer most salon services like manicures, pedicures, facials, waxing and hair services. A favourite of flight crews and repeat tourists due to the lower costs as compared to the sky high prices of other salons along the shopping belt. Shop around for prices, some of the better looking ones actually charge less.

Swimming
Forget your tiny hotel pool if you are into competitive or recreational swimming: Singapore is paradise for swimmers with arguably the highest density of public pools in the world. They are all open-air 50 m pools (some facilities even feature up to three 50 m pools), accessible for an entrance fee of $1–1.50. Some of the visitors don't swim at all. They just come from nearby housing complexes for a few hours to chill out, read and relax in the sun. Most are open daily 8AM-9PM and all feature a small cafe. Just imagine swimming your lanes in the tropical night with lit up palm trees surrounding the pool.

The Singapore Sports Council maintains a list of pools, most of which are part of a larger sports complex with a gym, running track, tennis courts etc., and are near the MRT station they're named after. Perhaps the best is in Katong (111 Wilkinson Road, on the East Coast): after the swim, stroll through the villa neighbourhood directly in front of the pool entrance and have a look at the luxurious, original architecture of the houses that really rich Singaporeans live in. If you get bored with regular swimming pools, head to the Jurong East Swimming Complex where you get the wave pool, water slides and Jacuzzi at an insanely affordable entrance fee of $1.50 on weekdays and $2 on weekends. For those who feel richer, visit the Wild Wild Wet water theme park or the Adventure Cove Waterpark and get yourself wet with various exciting water slides and tidal wave pools.

For those who don't like pools, head out to the beaches. The East Coast Park has a scenic coastline that stretches over 15 km. It's a popular getaway spot for Singaporeans to swim, cycle, barbeque and engage in various other sports and recreational activities. Sentosa island also has three white, sandy beaches - Siloso Beach, Palawan Beach and Tanjong Beach - each with its own distinct characteristics, and also very popular with locals.

Water sports
Canoeing and dragon-boating are popular water-sports in Singapore, and there are many beautiful reservoirs and rivers where one can partake in such physical activity. Check out the MacRitchie Reservoir, Kallang River and Marina Bay for reasonably priced options. Besides these more regular water sports, Singapore also offers water sports fans trendy activities such as cable-Skiing and wave surfing in specially created environments.

Snow sports
Being just one degree north of the equator, it is obviously not the best place on earth for skiing, but sunny Singapore still has a permanent indoor snow centre. Snow City offers visitors a chance to experience winter. Visitors can escape from the hot and humid tropical weather to play in snow or even learn to ski and snowboard with certified professional instructors.

Ice skating is also possible in Singapore, in Kallang Ice World at Leisure Park Kallang.

Sights in Singapore are covered in more detail under the various districts. Broadly speaking:

Beaches and tourist resorts: Head to one of the three beaches on Sentosa or its southern islands. Other beaches can be found on the East Coast.
Culture and cuisine: See Chinatown for Chinese treats, Little India for Indian flavours, Geylang Serai for a Malay experience or the East Coast for Eurasian and Peranakan culture and delicious seafood, including the famous chilli and black pepper crab.
History and museums: The Bras Basah area east of Orchard and north of the Singapore River is Singapore's colonial core, with historical buildings and museums. All government-run museums in Singapore are free admission for Singapore citizens and permanent residents except for temporary exhibits, but visitors will be charged an admission fee.
Nature and wildlife: Popular tourist attractions in the Mandai Wildlife Reserve include the Singapore Zoo, Night Safari, Bird Paradise and River Wonders. The Mandai Boardwalk is a free scenic walk along the Upper Seletar Reservoir in the Mandai Wildlife Reserve. The Botanic Gardens are the only  UNESCO World Heritage Site in Singapore. For something closer to the city, visit the futuristic Gardens by the Bay in the Marina district, behind the Marina Bay Sands. Finding "real" nature is a little harder, but the Bukit Timah Nature Reserve (in the same district as the zoo) has more plant species than in the whole of North America, and is also home to a thriving population of wild monkeys. Pulau Ubin, an island off the Changi Village in the east, is a flashback to the rural Singapore of yesteryear. Red junglefowl (often called wild chickens) can often be seen in many grassy areas around the city, even in downtown areas. City parks full of locals jogging or doing tai chi can be found everywhere. See Botanical tourism in Singapore for details on where to see trees and plants.
Skyscrapers and shopping: The heaviest shopping mall concentration is in Orchard Road, while skyscrapers are clustered around the Singapore River, but also check out Bugis and Marina Bay to see where Singaporeans shop.
Places of worship: Don't miss this aspect of Singapore, where Buddhism, Taoism, Hinduism, Sikhism, Christianity, Islam and Judaism all exist in sizeable numbers. Religious sites can be easily visited and welcome non-followers outside of service times. Particularly worth visiting include: the vast Kong Meng San Phor Kark See Monastery near Ang Mo Kio/Bishan, the colourful Hindu Sri Mariamman Temple in Chinatown, the psychedelic Burmese Buddhist Temple in Balestier and the stately Masjid Sultan in Arab Street.