SOURCE_TITLE: Wikivoyage - Singapore
SOURCE_URL: https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Singapore
---
Getting around Singapore is easy: the public transport network is extremely easy to use, affordable, and covers populated areas extensively. Furthermore, taxis/rideshares are reasonably priced and easy to hail via apps. CityMapper, Google Maps, and Apple Maps are all capable of figuring out the fastest route by rail and bus and even estimating taxi/rideshare fares between any two points.

Fares
Fares are charged based on distance and mode of transport.

The easiest way to pay for all public transport is to use a contactless Visa, Mastercard or American Express, which you can use to tap in to and out of any train or bus, including the Sentosa Express. Mobile phones with Visa, Mastercard or American Express stored in Apple Pay or Google Pay work as well. Foreign-issued cards are charged an additional $0.60/day handling fee, but for short stays (i.e. up to eight days over a five-year period) this still works out cheaper than an EZ-link/NETS prepaid card. Journey history is available with a TransitLink SimplyGo account.

Alternatively, pick up an EZ-link or NETS prepaid card at any train station or 7-Eleven store. The EZ-link prepaid card costs $12 ($5 for the card itself and $7 stored value) whilst the NETS prepaid card costs $10 ($5 for the card itself and $5 stored value). The cards can be topped up using cash or Singapore-issued credit or debit cards at ticketing machines located in train stations, by cash at convenience stores, or online through the EZ-link app. If you are leaving Singapore and you have some money on your card, you can go to any TransitLink ticket office for a refund, minus a $5 processing fee. The cards are valid for five years.

The Singapore Tourist Pass (STP) gives you unlimited rides for $17/24/29 for 1/2/3 days respectively, plus some discounts for attractions. However, given that most trips only cost $1.00-2.50, you would need to use the public transport system often during your stay for the STP to be worthwhile.

Cash is not accepted on the MRT/LRT. More expensive cash fares are available on buses but no change is given. Children under seven years old travel free. If your child is above 0.9m in height they need a Child Concession Card to travel.

Remember to tap your device or card against a reader before you exit a bus. Otherwise, you will be charged the maximum fare. The bus operator has no idea where you got off and assumes that you rode to the end of the line.

By train

MRT and LRT system map
The MRT (Mass Rapid Transit) and LRT (Light Rail Transit) are the backbone of Singapore's transit system. They are a cheap, fast and reliable mode of transportation, and the network covers most points of interest for the visitor. The stations are clean and equipped with free toilets and platform barriers for safety.

The North-East Line, Circle Line, Downtown Line, Thomson-East Coast Line and all upcoming lines run underground and are fully automated without a driver. It's worth walking up to the front of the train to check out the view of the tunnel ahead.

Eating and drinking (even water) is strictly prohibited in the stations and trains, with offenders being liable for a $500 fine. When using escalators, stand on the left to allow those in a hurry to pass on the right.

Locals refer to the underground metro system as the "MRT". The terms "Metro" or "Subway" are not widely used or understood.

By boat

Bumboat
Tourist-oriented bumboats cruise the Singapore River, offering point-to-point rides starting from $3 and cruises with nice views of the CBD skyscraper skyline starting from $13.

Bumboats also shuttle passengers from Changi Point Ferry Terminal to Pulau Ubin ($4 one-way), a small island off Singapore's northeast coast which is about as close as Singapore gets to unhurried rural living. These boats are the only way to get to Pulau Ubin without your own vessel. Ferries to the southern islands of Sisters' Islands, Kusu Island and St John's Island depart from Marina South Pier, next to the MRT station of the same name. Pulau Hantu is also open to the public, though there are no scheduled ferries there; you will need to charter a boat from either Marina South Pier or West Coast Pier.

By bus

Singapore bus
Buses connect various corners of Singapore, but are slower and harder to use than the MRT. On a long-distance bus, frequent stops and slow speeds may mean your journey could take two to three times as long as the same trip via MRT. Their main advantage is you get to see the sights rather than a dark underground tunnel, partly if you can snag a front seat on a double-decker, which make up a relatively huge percentage of buses in Singapore. Moreover, since there are a lot more bus stops than MRT stations, buses can often get you closer to your destination, which makes a big difference in the equatorial heat and humidity. All public buses in Singapore are air conditioned and wheelchair accessible.

Buses in Singapore stop on request only. Flag the bus if you want to board, press the stop button if you want to alight. All buses are GPS equipped; use an app like MyTransportSG, Google Maps, or Citymapper to track live arrival times. Most bus services have a frequency of between 5 and 15 minutes, although express services (look for bus numbers starting with a 5 or 6, or suffixed with "e"), have a frequency of 20 minutes or more and charge a higher fare.

The four bus operators in Singapore are SBS Transit, SMRT Buses, Tower Transit and Go-Ahead.

By taxi

Taxis in Singapore come in many colors, but Comfort's blue cabs are ubiquitous
Taxicabs use meters and are reasonably priced and honest. Outside weekday peak hours, trips within the city centre should not cost you more than $10 and even a trip right across the island from Changi to Jurong will not break the $50 mark. If you are in a group of 3 or 4, it's sometimes cheaper and faster to take a taxi than the MRT. ComfortDelgro, the largest operator, has a CDG Zig booking app that lets you order and pay for your taxi rides ridehail-style, including the option of a "ComfortRide" fixed price instead of running the meter, or you can call the unified booking system at ☏ +65 6-DIAL-CAB (3425-222). Hailing a taxi on the street or at a taxi stand lets you avoid the $2.30-3.30 booking fee though.

Taxi pricing is largely identical across all companies at $4.40-5.00 as a flag down rate (depending on the type of vehicle used), which lasts 1 km before increments of $0.26 per 400 m (for the first 10 km) or $0.26 per 350 m (after the first 10 km). Watch out for surprises though: on weekdays, trips before 9:30AM or after 5pm incur a 25-50% tariff, and on weekdays a 25% tariff is applicable between 10AM and 4PM. Extra fees ($3-8) may be added for trips starting at airports, popular attractions, and ferry terminals. Electronic Road Pricing surcharges or City Area fees may also apply at peak hours, which may add a substantial amount to your taxi fare. All such charges are shown on the bottom right-hard corner of the meter, recorded in the printed receipt and explained in tedious detail in a sticker on the window; if you suspect the cabbie is trying to pull a fast one, call the company and ask for an explanation. There is no surcharge for trips to the airport, only from. Paying by credit card will incur an additional surcharge of 10%, or $0.30 using other cards or app-based payments. As usual in Singapore, tips are not expected. In the Central Business District, taxis may pick up passengers only at taxi stands (found outside any shopping mall) or buildings with their own driveways (including virtually all hotels). Outside the centre, you're free to hail taxis on the street or call one to your doorstep.

Virtually all Singapore taxis are equipped with navigation systems that will get you where you want to go. Some cabbies may ask you which route you want to take; most are satisfied with "whichever way is faster".

By rideshare
Rideshare apps have largely supplanted taxis in Singapore. The two biggest players are Grab and Gojek. Rides are generally reasonably priced, with most off-peak rides in the city centre clocking in around $10-20, although during busy periods (Friday nights, when it rains, etc.) surge fares can be much higher. Most international credit/debit cards are accepted on their apps, and cash payments are also accepted. Other ride sharing apps include Ryde and Tada. For the best fare, download a few apps and check the cost of your journey between them, as the cheapest company may change by the time-of-day.

By car
Main article: Driving in Singapore
By thumb
Hitchhiking is virtually unheard of in Singapore, and given the small size of the country and its cheap, ubiquitous public transport, it's hardly necessary.

Driving is not a popular option for visitors to Singapore, as public transport covers virtually the entire island and it's generally cheaper to take taxis all day than to rent. You will usually be looking at upwards from $100 per day for the smallest vehicle from the major rental companies, although local ones can be cheaper and there are sometimes good weekend prices available. This does not include petrol at around $3/litre or electronic road pricing (ERP) fees, and rentals often charge extra or prohibit driving to Malaysia.

By bicycle
Although Singapore is mostly flat and there're only a few locations to climb, commuting on bicycle is challenging. There are few dedicated bicycle lanes on public roads, and road courtesy towards cyclists from motorists is sorely lacking. You may cycle on the road, cycling paths, shared use paths, and footpaths, with each having its own challenges.

Bikes are permitted on public roads, provided you wear a helmet, and your bike is equipped with front white and rear red lights when cycling at night. You must keep to the left most lane. Bike lanes are only found on Tanah Merah Coastal Road and West Camp Road. There is no speed limit for bicycles on the roads. Bicycles are prohibited from expressways, road tunnels and the Tuas Viaduct.

Red cycle paths may be found beside the footpath; these paths frequently turn into shared use paths indicated by a dotted red box. You must use these where available - it is illegal to do otherwise. There is also a network of off-road walking and cycling paths, such as the Park Connector Network (PCN) and the Rail Corridor. The speed limit is 25km/h in dedicated cycling paths, and 10km/h in shared paths with pedestrians. Bicycle parking is found near MRT stations and shopping malls. A map of cycle paths can be found here.

Electric bicycles are only permitted on cycle paths, shared use paths and roads. They are not permitted on the footpath.

Shared bicycles can be rented with mobile apps such as Anywheel or HelloRide, at designated parking spots, typically indicated by a bright yellow rectangle on the ground. Scan the QR code on the ground to park your bike. Foldable bicycles not exceeding 120cm by 70cm by 40cm when folded can be brought onto public transit all day.

On foot
Singapore is very pedestrian-friendly. In the main business district and on main roadways, pavements and pedestrian crossings are in good shape and plentiful, and by Asian standards drivers are generally careful and willing to give way at marked crossings. Jaywalking is illegal and punished with fines of $25 and up to three months in jail, but this is rarely enforced.

An unavoidable downside, though, is the tropical heat and humidity, which leaves many visitors sweaty and exhausted, so do as the locals do and bring along a little towel, a bottle of water and even an umbrella to protect against the searing heat. Also, afternoon thunderstorms are fairly common during the monsoon season. It's best to get an early start, pop into air-conditioned shops, cafes and museums to cool off or take shelter from rain, and plan on heading back to the shopping mall or hotel pool before noon. Alternatively, after sundown, evenings can also be comparatively cool. On the upside, the fact that the sun is often covered in clouds and shaded by trees and greenery along roads means that you won't get as easily sunburnt as otherwise at these latitudes. Nevertheless, it is advisable to wear linen or polyester-made clothing which wick away sweat faster, as cotton-made clothing is usually soaked with high amounts of sweat that were a result from the high heat and humidity.

A useful tip to combat the tropical weather is to look out for air-conditioned underground pedestrian crossings. These climate-controlled walkways are plentiful and often between shopping malls and high-rise office buildings. In addition, look out for the pedestrian walkways connecting to underground MRT stations. Some stations can have up to 25 different walkways connecting to different entrances/exits in the area, creating an extensive network of walkways around the downtown core that gives one the impression of a city underneath the city.

Classic walks in Singapore include walking down the river from the Merlion through the Boat and Clarke Quays, walking around the entire perimeter of Marina Bay, trekking along the Southern Ridges Walk or just strolling around Chinatown, Little India, Bugis or Orchard.